# Taking Snapshots 📸

The essence of Git is taking snapshots of your project **at meaningful intervals** . 

Enough talking about "snapshots", the technical appropriate word for these is commits. 
A commit consists on saving all staged changes at once under a descriptive message. 
Staged changes are not recorded yet by Git, they just live on a special place until they go into a commit. 
It is this action that makes the changes go into the history, so the `git commit` command is the most basic saving operation Git has. 

Mastering the art and science of committing changes, understanding the significance of each snapshot, and familiarizing yourself with good commit habits are quintessencial to building a robust project history. 
And this is of upmost importance since these will become your navigation logs of the project’s timeline. 🛤️


## Exploring `git commit`  🧐

Now that you've been introduced to the concept of commits as snapshots in your project's timeline, let’s unearth more secrets of the `git commit` command for crafting impeccable commit messages.

As we have seen, Git allows you to selectively add changes to a commit, ensuring each snapshot is purposeful and manageable. 

- `git commit -m "Your commit message goes here"`

And that's it, that's how you make a commit. Simple, right?

## Amending Commits ✒️

Mistakes happen! With Git, you can amend your last commit with the `--amend` flag. This will  let you correct the commit message or add forgotten changes, ensuring your history remains clean.

- `git commit --amend`


## `git log` : exploring its historical layers with Git

The `git log` command is a powerful tool that unveils the log of commits, helping you trace the evolution of your codebase. It allows you yo navigate through the history of your project effortlessly.

- `git log --oneline` : Get a concise view of commits.
- `git log --graph` : Visualize the commit tree.
- `git log -p` : See the patch introduced by each commit.

Filtering the history:

- `git log --since`, `git log --until` : Filter commits based on date.
- `git log --author` : Filter commits by author.

Tracing changes to specific files:

- `git log <filename>` : View the commit history for a specific file.
- `git log -- <filename>` : Trace changes to a particular file over time.
